Docspec Q&A (#58)
phadej/cabal-extras: cabal-docspec/MANUAL.md

GHC-7.0 relies that *Char* type is in scope. This is an implementation artifact.

Q&A
====

> Q: cabal-docspec doesn't import modules automatically

Reviewer: This is present as a Q&A, but many of these aren't actually questions :)

Author: True. I probably thought this as *Why ... *?

Reviewer: Indeed, I think it would be worthwhile to go through and "questionize" each of the items, as it makes the presentation more consistent.

-----------------------------------------------------

cabal-docspec tests library documentation from the outside.
It doesn't even try to look into an implementation for some secret bits, only to find examples.

> In this sense it is more principled (than doctest).

Reviewer: One thing that's a bit confusing is that the word "doctest" has two meanings:

1. A general description of comments-as-test-cases, and
2. `doctest` the library.

This sentence has an occurrence of (2), but later on, you use "doctest" in the sense of (1). I'd recommend formatting `doctest`-the-library with a monospace font to make this distinction clearer.

Author: Noted. (`cabal-docpsec --man` shows this document, and there is no option to have non-monospace, but I can format doctest-the-lib differently).

> There fore you might need to repeat imports in **$setup** block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore you might need to repeat imports in a **$setup** block.
```

> OTOH, the implementation imports never interfere with doctests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OTOH, the implementation's imports never interfere with doctests.
```

Q: How to hide some Prelude imports, e.g. null
----------------------------------------------

> One way is to redefine the symbol in **$setup** block using qualified

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way is to redefine the symbol in a **$setup** block using a qualified
```

module name.

```haskell
let null = Module.Under.Test.null
```

> This way it will shadow both *Prelude.null* and *Module.Under.Test.null*,

Reviewer: Is there a reason to format `Prelude.null` with *italics* rather than a `monospace` font? This is a general comment that applies to other parts of the manual as well.

Author: `--man`. There is no monospace. Only underscore (which is *foo*) and bold-face.

Reviewer: To be honest, I've never created a manpage before, so this is an interesting insight!

> and ambiguous symbol errors wont appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and ambiguous symbol errors won't appear.
```

Another option is to use **-XNoImplicitPrelude** and import *Prelude*
explicitly.

Q: How cabal-docspec works with pre-8.0 version of GHC
------------------------------------------------------

> cabal-docspec reads *plan.json* file which is generated by cabal-install.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cabal-docspec reads a *plan.json* file, which is generated by cabal-install.
```

That file contains (almost) all required information for cabal-docspec
to invoke ghci with the correct arguments.

Q: When does plan.json get generated?
-------------------------------------

It is generated by cabal-install as a side-effect of running the solver.
For example even

    cabal build --dry-run

is enough.
However, without libraries actually being built, cabal-docspec won't work.

> Q: Does doctests' --fast have an equivalent in cabal-docspec?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q: Does doctest's --fast have an equivalent in cabal-docspec?
```

-------------------------------------------------------------

No, cabal-doctest doesn't need one.

> As the library under tests is not interpreted, but loaded from

Reviewer: This sentence reads very strangely to me, and I'm not quite sure what the intended phrasing was. Here is one possible way to rewrite this:

```suggestion
The library code is loaded as pre-compiled object code, not interpreted code. As a result, the `:reload` command doesn't force code to be re-interpreted each time, making to cheap to run.
```

pre-compiled object, the **:reload** command is cheap.
It doesn't cause the re-interpretation of the sources.

Q: Are you envisioning making binary distributions of cabal-docspec available
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Yes.

> Q: In the lens example, is test-suite somehow related to doctests?

Reviewer: Perhaps it would be best just to include this information in section about the `lens` example, rather than including it here (which is relatively far away).

------------------------------------------------------------------

> No. The test-suite is there to make extra dependencies built by cabal-install. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No. The test-suite is there to ensure that the extra dependencies are built by cabal-install. 
```

> We can also use dummy package for that purpose,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can also use a dummy package for that purpose,
```

> yet test-suite is more light weight.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but a test-suite is more lightweight.
```

> With cabal-install-3.4 you may use 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an alternative to this approach, with cabal-install-3.4 you may use 
```

    extra-packages: simple-reflect

in the *cabal.project* file.

> Q: Are cabal build --disable tests and cabal-docspec incompatible?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q: Are cabal build --disable-tests and cabal-docspec incompatible?
```

------------------------------------------------------------------

> In general no. As far as library and extra dependencies used by doctests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, no. As long as the library and extra dependencies used by doctests
```

are built, cabal-docspec shold work fine.

Q: What advantages cabal-docspec have over doctest and .ghc.environment files?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> There are few differences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few differences.
```

1. The same cabal-docspec binary works with all GHC versions.
   Also with versions which don't have .ghc.environment file feature.

> 2. cabal-docspec doesn't interpret sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. cabal-docspec doesn't interpret the source code.
```

   Though, doctest could have that mode too.

3. Because cabal-docspec uses *plan.json* information,

>    it doesn't have problem with visibility of packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   it doesn't have problems with the visibility of packages.
```

   For example *Prelude.Compat* from *base-compat* and *base-compat-batteries*

>    won't cause ambiguous module problems, as long as the library under test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   won't cause ambiguous module problems, as long as the library being tested
```
